#summary How to build Turtle Arena on Windows
#labels Phase-Deploy

NOTE: This page is unfinished.

You first need to get the source code as described [BuildingSource here].

= Compiling the source =
Currently the best way to compile Turtle Arena is from a terminal using "make".

== Windows - Make ==
See [http://wiki.ioquake3.org/Building_ioquake3_on_Windows_-_mingw_and_msys Building ioquake3 on Windows - mingw and msys].

== Windows - Code::Blocks ==
  # Open engine/misc/code_blocks/ioq3.workspace
  # Select Platform
  # Rebuild workspace
  # Output will be in engine/build/

== Windows - Microsoft Visual C++ ==
Currently unsupported. There are project files for ioquake3 in engine/misc/msvc/.

Below are changes that ''should'' make the ioquake3 projects compile Turtle Arena. This is untested and may not be up-to-date.

Workspace:
Add file listed below to workspace
  * engine/code/splines/Splines.vcproj

Quake3 project:
  * Link to the output library of Splines project.

Cgame project:
Add file listed below to project
  * engine/code/cgame/cg_npcs.c

Game project:
Add files listed below to project
  * engine/code/game/g_npc.c
  * engine/code/game/g_npcmove.c
  * engine/code/game/g_npcthink.c
  * engine/code/game/g_save.c
  * engine/code/game/g_paths.c

Q3_UI project:
Add below to project
  * engine/code/q3_ui/ui_spplayer.c

Copy the defines from the Turtle Arena config section of the engine/Makefile into all projects (Except Splines and BSPC).

== Windows - Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 and 2008 ==
Currently unsupported. See Building ioquake3 on Windows - Visual Studio [http://wiki.ioquake3.org/Building_ioquake3_on_Windows_-_Visual_Studio_2005 2005] and [http://wiki.ioquake3.org/Building_ioquake3_on_Windows_-_Visual_Studio_2008 2008]. Like Microsoft Visual C++ you will need to add files and such.


= Launching the game =

== Windows - Make ==
1. Copy the qvms files from engine\build\release-mingw32-x86\base\vm\ to base\vm\

2. In the command prompt change to the directory where you did the checkout. Example: cd "C:\\Program Files\TurtleArena\svn\"

3. Run in the command prompt: engine\build\release-mingw32-x86\turtlearena.x86 +set fs_basepath "."

== Windows (Other) ==
Other being Code::Blocks, Microsoft Visual C++, or Microsoft Visual Studio 2005/2008.

The projects do not compile QVMs, only DLLs. The DLLs are used for testing/debugging, while QVMs are used for release. Make also compiles DLLs as well as QVMs.

  # Copy the DLLs files (engine\build\cgame_release\cgamex86.dll, engine\build\game_release\qagamex86.dll, engine\build\q3_ui_release\uix86.dll) into base\
  # In the command prompt change to the directory where you did the checkout. Example: cd "C:\\Program Files\TurtleArena\svn\"
  # Run in the command prompt: engine\build\release-mingw32-x86\turtlearena.x86 +set fs_basepath "." +set sv_pure 0 +set vm_game 0 +set vm_cgame 0 +set vm_ui 0