#summary List of Console Variables
#labels Phase-Implementation

List of *Console variables* (also called Cvars) that have been added and removed from ioquake3 Team Arena. The list is incomplete and based on the latest changes to the SVN.

= Added =

  * scorelimit (Renamed from fraglimit)

  * ui_ffa_scorelimit (Renamed from ui_ffa_fraglimit)
  * ui_tourney_scorelimit (Renamed from ui_tourney_fraglimit)
  * ui_team_scorelimit (Renamed from ui_team_fraglimit)
  * ui_1flag_capturelimit
  * ui_1flag_timelimit
  * ui_1flag_friendly
  * ui_obelisk_capturelimit
  * ui_obelisk_timelimit
  * ui_obelisk_friendly
  * ui_harvester_capturelimit
  * ui_harvester_timelimit
  * ui_harvester_friendly
  * ui_spStage
  * ui_publicServer

  * g_spSaveData
  * g_saveVersions
  * g_saveTypes
  * g_teleportFluxTime - Time in seconds to be non-solid after teleporting

  * cg_drawSpeed - Draw player's speed on the HUD
  * cg_drawMeleeWeaponTrails - Draw (unfinished) melee weapon trails
  * cg_impactDebris - Set to 0 to disable impact particles. Set to 0.5 to cut in number half. Set to 2 to double number.

  * fs_pure - Read only cvar: fs_pure prevents sv_pure from being set to true when the default Pk3 files are missing or modified.

  * sv_public
    * 1: Advertise server on Internet, server will appear in the in-game server list. Technical: Server sends heartbeats to master servers.
    * 0: Doesn't list on master server, but replies to direct status requests (like if server is added as a favorite). Technical: Server doesn't send heartbeats to master servers.
    * -1: Don't replay to status requests, server will not show in the in-game server list. Other programs such as XQF it will show the server, but think the server is down (as it doesn't reply to status requests).
    * -2: Don't allow clients to join the game.
    * -3: (game/q3_ui/ui) Offline multiplayer mode, uses q3_ui/ui postgame.
	* Note: If the server had "sv_public" set to 1 (public) and then is change to 0/-1/-2 (private) it will still be sent to clients by dpmaster master servers for up to 15 more minutes. Turtle Arena's MasterServer solves this issue, server will be sent out only 2 more seconds instead of upto 15 minutes.

  * cl_thirdPersonAnalog - Move player relative to camera.

= Removed =

  * com_blood

  * ui_cdkeychecked

  * cg_autoswitch
  * cg_zoomfov
  * cg_gibs
  * cg_drawAmmoWarning
  * cg_animSpeed
  * cg_debuganim
  * cg_forceModel


= Splitscreen Players =
Console variables and commands for splitscreen players begin "2", "3", or "4".

List for player 2;
  * 2dropflag
  * 2stats
  * 2setviewpos
  * 2teamvote
  * 2callteamvote
  * 2vote
  * 2callvote
  * 2team
  * 2followprev
  * 2follownext
  * 2follow
  * 2levelshot
  * 2teamtask
  * 2kill
  * 2noclip
  * 2notarget
  * 2god
  * 2give
  * 2vtaunt
  * 2votell
  * 2vosay_team
  * 2vosay
  * 2vtell
  * 2vsay_team
  * 2vsay
  * 2tell
  * 2say_team
  * 2say
  * 2holdable
  * 2holdprev
  * 2holdnext
  * 2camreset
  * 2dropin
  * 2dropout
  * 2centerview
  * 2in_joystickDebug = "0"
  * 2teamtask = "0"
  * 2spheadmodel = ""
  * 2spmodel = "mike"
  * 2cg_thirdPersonRange = "120"
  * 2cg_thirdPersonAngle = "0"
  * 2cg_thirdPerson = "1"
  * 2cl_anglespeedkey = "1.5"
  * 2in_joystickUseAnalog = "0"
  * 2in_joystickNo = "0"
  * 2cl_yawspeed = "140"
  * 2cl_pitchspeed = "140"
  * 2j_pitch = "0.022"
  * 2j_yaw = "-0.022"
  * 2j_forward = "-0.25"
  * 2j_side = "0.25"
  * 2j_pitch_axis = "3"
  * 2j_yaw_axis = "4"
  * 2j_forward_axis = "1"
  * 2j_side_axis = "0"
  * 2name = "UnnamedPlayer2"
  * 2model = "mike"
  * 2headmodel = ""
  * 2color1 = "5"
  * 2color2 = "4"
  * 2handicap = "100"
  * 2in_joystick = "1"
  * 2in_joystickThreshold = "0.150000"
  * 2cl_thirdPersonAnalog = "1"
