#summary Contribution guidelines.
#labels Featured

Turtle Arena is free and open source software [#* *], contributions must also be. You can submit changes and new stuff using the [http://code.google.com/p/turtlearena/issues issue tracker]. Please state if you created the submission or who did create it, so it can be credited properly.

= Data =
Contributed data (models, images, audio, etc) are required to be licensed as [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/ CC-BY-SA-3.0] and/or [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html GPLv2 with 'or any later version' option (GPLv2+)], preferably both.
  * Source files are required if they exist. Most things should have a source file.
    * Source files makes it easier for others to improve/modify the data.
    * It is recommended to use free and open source software for creating the data, so anyone can download and use the program you used to create the source file.
  * It is recommended to use multilayer images when creating all images (unless they are _very_ simple).
  * It is recommended to use skeleton animation for animated models.

It is recommended to use the software used to create most of the existing data. There are many source files for them in the source repository already.
  * 3D Models
    * Wings3D — 3D modeler (`*.wings`)
    * Misfit Model 3D — 3D modeler and animator (`*.mm3d`)
  * 2D Graphics
    * GIMP — Raster graphics (`*.xcf`)
    * Inkscape — Scalable Vector Graphics (`*.svg`)

= Source Code =
Source code contributions should be licensed as [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html GPLv2 with 'or any later version' option (GPLv2+)].

= `*` =
Most of the music in Turtle Arena is licensed as non-commercial which is considered non-free by Debian Free Software Guidelines. No further data licensed as non-commercial will be excepted. The non-commercial music will likely be removed.