#summary How to use the new features in Turtle Arena
#labels Phase-Implementation

Incomplete list of editing information for new features not found in ioquake3.

== Shaders ==

=== vextexlight/novertexlight ===
_Search for "IOQ3ZTM // EF2_SHADERS" in the code to see implantation._

Support for Star Trek Elite Force 2 if no/vextexlight shaders.

Example shader:
{{{
textures/name
{
if novertexlight
	{
		map textures/name_novertexlight
	}
	{
		map textures/name_1
		blendFunc BLEND
	}
	{
		map textures/name_2
		blendFunc BLEND
	}
endif
if vertexlight
	{
		map textures/name_vertexlight
	}
endif
}
}}}


== Skins ==
Skins are used for players and CTF flags.

=== $(dir) ===
_Search for "IOQ3ZTM // $DIR_IN_SKIN" in the code to see implantation._

$(dir) can be used to specify the directory that the skin file is in.

Example skin:
{{{
l_leg_right,$(dir)/legs.png
l_leg_left,$(dir)/legs.png
tag_torso,
}}}

=== Damage Shaders ===
_Search for "IOQ3ZTM_NO_COMPAT // DAMAGE_SKINS" in the code to see implantation._

Player skins can have extra shaders that are used when the player is damaged. There can be up to 10 shaders.

If there are 3 shaders, the first is used when health is 66-100, the second is used when health is 33-66, the last is used when health is 0-33. If there are 4 shaders, the first is 75-100, the second is 50-75, the third is 25-50, the last is 0-25. This continues for up to 10 shaders.

Each mesh can have a different number of shaders.

Example skin:
{{{
l_legs,players/raph/legs,players/raph/legs_damaged1,players/raph/legs_damaged2
l_mesh,players/raph/mesh,players/raph/mesh_damaged
l_static_mesh,players/raph/show_no_damage
tag_torso,
}}}

== animations.cfg ==
Player model config file.

=== soundpath ===
_Search for "soundpath" in the code to see implantation, it is added by the define TA_PLAYERSYS._

By placing "soundpath NAME" in animation.cfg the client will use sounds from "sound/NAME/" instead of "sound/HEADMODELNAME/". Soundpath defaults to the client's headmodel name (which is usually the player model directory name).

soundpath is used in Star Trek: Voyager - Elite Force.

Example:
{{{
soundpath raph
}}}