#summary Installer and packaging information
#labels Phase-Deploy

Turtle Arena is released using a few different installers/packages, this page describes how to create them. To create any of the packages you need the Turtle Arena source code and the ability to compile Turtle Arena (using 'make').

== Types ==
Turtle Arena is currently released using three methods; zip archive, Debian packages, and a Win32 NSIS installer.

== All ==
To create all of the packages at once, you must use Linux.

  # You need to have nsis installed to build to Win32 NSIS installer
  # If you are building a released version (as apposed to from subversion trunk), copy assests0.pk3 into install/base/
  # Run ./package.sh (It will guide building the packages.)
  # Packages will be in the install directory.

== Zip Archive ==
Currently the zip archive is created by running './package.sh' like in the "All" method described above and manually zipping the proper files in the 'install' directory.

  # Run ./package.sh
  # Open 'install' directory
  # Zip the 'base' and 'setting' directories along with the files in 'install' directory.

== Debian/Ubuntu Packages ==
If you are building from subversion trunk it is recommended you use the "All" method described above.

  # If you are building a released version (as apposed to from subversion trunk), copy assests0.pk3 into install/base/
  # Run ./package-deb.sh
  # Open 'install/deb' directory

== Windows NSIS Installer ==
To create the Windows NSIS Installer you need to install NSIS and the Turtle Arena source code.

  # Install NSIS 2.44 (2.46 doesn't create a valid installer) (NOTE: Ubuntu 10.04 (lucid) has 2.46 in its package repository so you will need to install a older 2.44 package from Ubuntu 9.10 (karmic))
  # Download the Turtle Arena source code if you do not already have it
  # Copy assets0.pk3 into the engine/misc/nsis/ directory inside of the Turtle Arena source
  # Open a terminal and change to the engine/misc/nsis/ directory inside of the Turtle Arena source
  # Run 'make'

== Windows NSIS Mod Installer ==
Turtle Arena modifications (mods) can have their own Windows NSIS Installer.

  # Browse to engine/misc/nsis/ directory inside of the Turtle Arena source
  # Copy the files for the mod into the directory.
  # Copy turtlearena-q3ctc.nsi and rename it to trutlearena-yourmodname.nsi
  # Open the new file and modify the lines above 'no need to edit below in theory' to suit your mod
  # Run 'makensis trutlearena-yourmodname.nsi'

If all went well, you should have a installer/uninstaller for your mod now.

