#summary todo and bugs
#labels Phase-Design

*Turtle Arena TODO and BUGS*

= Roadmap =
== 0.2 (Completed) ==
First stable playable release.

  * Standalone from Quake III: Arena
  * Bot support (botfiles based on OpenArena)
  * All 4 Turtles (Leo, Don, Raph, and Mike)
  * Melee weapons
  * Reworked weapon system (Only hold 2 weapons, default and a pickup)
  * Hold multiple holdable items
  * Shurikens (holdable items)
  * Maps for all gametypes

== 0.2.1? ==
0.4 may take will take more than 6 months, so it might be a good idea to release a bug fix release.

  * Bug fixes

== 0.4 ==
Focus on players, map themes, and multiplayer maps

  * Map Themes (textures, models, misc_objects, and maybe music?)
  * New multiplayer maps using the new map themes
  * Improve player models; each player should have their own animations, etc
  * Have player models be MDR (Finish Misfit Model 3D MDR exporting)
  * Multiple levels of detail for players and other models
  * Bring back player effect colors?
    * DONE: Readd to ui and q3_ui
    * (Control melee trail color?)
  * Add more players (Mirage comic based); Foot Ninja, Foot Elite, and The Shredder
  * Reduce overall number of TODOs and FIXMEs in the source

  * Hopefully make it a complete (fully working) multiplayer game (Compareable to TMNT: Mutant Melee in someways...)
 
== 0.6 ==
Focus on Single Player

  * Enemies for Single Player
  * Single Player Maps
  * Gimmicks
  * Savegames
  * Player Abilities
  * Remake UI with missionpack ui scripting?

== 0.8 ==

== 1.0 ==
  * Local four player support (Splitscreen and/or a single camera mode)

= engine =
== Weapons ==
Weapons (and attacking)

  * IOQ3ZTM: TODO: Spawn Ammo items from weaponinfo.txt
    * If I make it so weapon/ammo items are in text files, should I have all items in iteminfo.txt (and `*.item`) too?...

  * TODO: Have weapons be seperate entities (ET_WEAPON) from the player,
		allowing one rendering function that can be use for all weapons,
		and do collision so that weapons don't go into the wall. (And bounce back if you hit the wall?)
  * TODO-after-above: Add a option to weapon group info to hold a weapon upside-down.

  * TODO: Attack movement flags. Stop, cut speed in half, double speed, turn right?, etc.

  * TODO: Remove code for tag_hand_primary/secondary and just use tag_weapon/flag ?
    * Logic-wise `tag_hand_*` make more sense, but I still support tag_weapon/flag (My players use tag_weapon/flag ...)

  * TODO: Add Bow and Arrow? (Like LoZ:TP) { Camera looks over player's shoulder when in aim mode }
    * ("Charge up" weapon (and animate player), when fully charged fire projectile (or fire on release weaponFlag?) )

  * BUG: CreateFuzzyWeight doesn't setup inventory weight correctly, causes SIGBUS in FuzzyWeightUndecided_r

  * TODO: Draw the secondary pickup weapon somewhere on the player when single handed

  * STARTED (TA_HOLDABLE): Make shurikens/holdable-projectiles general like weapons groups.
    * (So they can be totally configured from .weap, and add new ones)

  * BUG: Flash origin isn't updated when missing weapon model

  * IOQ3ZTM: TODO: Support IMPRESSIVE awards in non-TURTLEARENA TA_WEAPSYS

  * TODO: Add PD_CUSTOM projectile death type
    * pdModel <string>, pdShader <string>, pdSprite <bool>, pdDuration <int>, pdLight <int> <vec3>, pdExpBase <int>, pdExpAdd <int>, pdExpOnPlayer <bool>
    * pdExpOnPlayer would set whether or not to explode on players in CG_MissileHitPlayer

  * TODO: Add PT_CUSTOM projectile trail type

  * TODO: Per-weapon run animations (Support LEGS_* and BOTH_*. Should TORSO_* be supported too?)

  * TODO: Support BOTH_* attacks (not just TORSO_*) in ui/q3_ui

== Single Player ==
  * TODO: True Single Player mode with NPCs and all that.

  * TODO: Lua Scripting for NPCs? http://xreal.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/xreal/trunk/xreal/base/code/game/g_lua.c?view=markup

  * TODO: Finish savegames for single player
    * When starting single player have user pick save slot and/or enter name to set g_saveFilename. (Like SRB2 2.0)
      * (No save option would use "" which defaults to "autosave")

  * TODO: Rewrite single player post-game data saving.
    * Have it be more like in Team Arena then Q3, using ".game" files instead of cvars in config.
    * Or one single data file with all of the sp data (Or SP data files -like SRB2 2.0)

  * TODO: Mouser NPC, or call it ABMT? (A Better Mouse Trap)

== Single Player (NiGHTS) ==
  * TODO: Chet into Dreams...  (A boy dreams of his lost turtles.)
    * NiGHTS would replaced with a Ninja Turtle?
    * The level could be set inside an aquarium (With the aquarium at very large scale)
    * Before the dream Chet could be replaying the events of how he lost his turtles
       * Afterword the people around him, and the TCRI truck, could turn into nightmarens. (The truck could turn into the boss)
    * After the dream Chet would see the Turtles outside his window.

== Render ==
  * TODO: NPRQuake has some awesome rendering options... (If I wanted it to look like a comic book it might help.)

  * TODO: Framebuffer object support? https://bugzilla.icculus.org/show_bug.cgi?id=3422

  * TODO: When there are multiple ghost models they may not be sorted into correct order?

  * TODO: Add Vertex Buffer Object (VBO) support?

== UI ==
  * TODO: Remake UI/HUD using Quake III: Team Arena menu scripting?

  * TODO: Update MISSIONPACK ui? http://svn.icculus.org/quake3/trunk/code/q3_ui/ui_video.c?r1=390&r2=1161

  * TODO (STARTED): Have a completed game menu/screen (Instead of just dropping the player back to the main menu with no message, it could leaving the player wondering why.)
    * sp_complete and sp_gameover

== Teamplay ==
  * TODO: Data: Team skins for players

  * TODO: Per-team flag skins?... (Team icon is on flag skin)
     * Would a shader remap work?

  * TODO: Have Foot be the default red team (Update flag skin)

  * TODO: Have Shell be the default blue team? (Base Shell icon on game icon)

  * TODO: Have a extra team (Needed for mp_ui), like (Purple) Dragon, or Guardian

== New Entities ==
  * TODO: Add misc_bubbles entity.

  * TODO: Add misc_dripper entity.

  * TODO: Add new entity to take damage and give it to a targeted entity. (func_voodoodoll)
    * Allow bushes to be used for cars (and other others) oddly shaped collision box

== Misc ==
  * TODO: Add optional run animations for torso

  * STARTED (TA_PATHSYS): Finish new path system "g_paths.c" for NPCs (and players not in NiGHTS mode?).
  * TODO: Support path_axis (orbit around ent), use TR_SINE?
  * TODO: Make sure players support PATH_LINE

  * TODO: Support models/players/NAME/animsounds.cfg used in STV:Elite Force (SP) (Also used in Jedi Knight 2) ?
    * Started see bg_sound_t and Sounds_Parse; it is similar to animsounds, but different.
    * It currently doesn't load sounds and is for NPC and misc objects only.

  * TODO: Pull grapple back to player before removing entity like LoZ: TP?

  * BUG: When players have PW_FLASHING they can walk though Obelisks/misc_objects.
    * When PW_FLASHING wears off while in a solid, they are killed. Otherwise they would be stuck.

  * STARTED (NIGHTSMODE): NiGHTS into Dreams mode
    * Maybe instead of NiGHTS use a dragon-form like in TMNT 2003 Season 5, Dragons are sort of like Nightmarens...

  * TODO: New gametypes; Last Man Standing, King of the Hill, and Keepaway? -- Based of there forms in TMNT: Mutant Melee.

  * TODO: http://code.google.com/p/oax/wiki/Dynamic_QVM_Memory_Allocation

  * TODO: Word filter http://code.google.com/p/sgfork/source/detail?r=5

  * TODO: Support focusing on 4 players with one camera, for a local 4 player game (splitscreen would be optional).

  * TODO: Support bots using func_use (use via holdable item button)

  * TODO: Allow func_breakable and misc_object to be pushable.

  * TODO: Use or remove BotInventoryWeapon and BotInventoryAmmo?

  * BUG: Bloom in windowed mode only effecting the top 480 (or is it 640?) pixels?

  * TODO: Make a original character (In case the Ninja Turtles have to be removed at some point)

  * TODO: Improve misc object physics. (Use code from Q3Rally? bg_physics.c/h)

  * TODO: Driveable vehicles? (Base on Q3Rally)

  * TODO: Button to drop held CTF flag like in SRB2?

  * TODO: Add Jump/Land animations specificly for backflip, fallback to 'Jump/Land B' (jump backward)
    * For jumping backward in lock-on mode, like in LoZ:TP
    * (Should Turtle Arena players just have 'Jump/Land B' be a backflip?)

  * TODO: Improve camera system.
    * DONE: Controls for moving chase cam (left, right, up, down)
    * (NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams) Move camera if holding 'z' and move analog stick, can't look around while moving
    * BETTER(not done?): When moving the camera around the player, focus on the player. (Like in NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams)

  * TODO: STARTED(TURTLEARENA // LOCKON): When attacking a player (or NPC) focus on them?  (Like LoZ:TP 'z' target lock-on)
    * BUG: When higher then target to focus on it gets all messed up.

  * TODO: Merge Quake3 bot chat and Team Arena voice chat systems?
    * base/botfiles/bots/raph_t.c hold the "Q3 bot chats" for non-teamplay (Team-only Team Arena players have dummy files)
    * base/botfiles/teamplay.h holds the "Q3 bot chats" for teamplay
    * base/scripts/male1.voice Team Arena added voice chats that are only used in teamplay (Some are usable by both humans and bots)
    * Have everywhere that starts a "Q3 bot chat" use voice chats instead?
      * (Unless it uses vars and can't be a voice chat, like "whois")
    * TeamPlayIsOn() is used to check if in teamplay for which chats to use and stuff
    * (Turtle Arena allows 64 voice chat files, so we could allow bots to have custom chats)

  * TODO: Set voicechat filename in animations.cfg

  * TODO: Add MD5 model support
    * MD5 use single model and skeleton
    * the animations can move any part of the model
    * multiple animations can animate at the same time
  * TODO-after-above: Re-rig and reanimate players in Blender for MD5? (or add MD5 export to MM3D?)

  * FIXME: Turtle Arena uses code from Wolf-ET (GPLv3 or later).
    * I need to change the licensing on the effected files to GPLv3 (or later).
    * Should I change the whole source to GPLv3 (or later)? (and the data too?)
      * If I change the whole source it could cause issues with submitting patches to ioq3 (and more difficult for other q3 mods to use my code?)

== Objects ==
Most of the mapobjects should be damageable.

  * TODO: Make more mapobjects
    * Clump of tall grass (Like in TMNT2: Battle Nexus (GC) level 2 and LoZ:TP)
    * Animated flower bud
    * Trees, bushes, flowers, tall-grasses,
    * Traffic barrel-thingy? Traffic "saw-horse"-thingy
    * Firehydroant, lightpole,
    * street-signs (one-way, 3rd street, Stop, Yield, people crossing, speed limit)
    * Torch Flame, wall torchs, etc et
    * Lamps and other light things

== Testing! ==
  * TODO: Test/use the "noise" and "random" waveforms that I copied from IOSTVEF

  * TODO: Check if "TA_WEAPSYS // BOT_ITEM_INFOS" breaks compatibility with q3 mods.

== Don't do? (Dead Ideas?) ==
  * TODO: Feet tags, for attack checking? And/or for attaching hoverboard to player?

  * TODO: Use vertex lighting on misc_model entities? http://xreal.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/xreal?view=rev&revision=3049
    * ZTM: I could add a option so use vertex lighting, but normally use lightmapping?
    *   OR Just use misc_object as they use vertex lighting.
    * Misc_model is a way to insert a *static* model, so lightmap like the level.

  * WONTFIX?: First Person weapon doesn't draw correctly (It draws too near to the screen)
			This happens due to changing the field of view to 70 (Q3 uses 90)

  * TODO: Have Announcer use "voice chats" so that the text is printed as well as playing a sound.
  * TODO: Allow multiple Announcers? Have a cg_announcer cvar { "none", "male", "female", etc } to control voice chat file.

  * TODO-after-adding-ET_WEAPON: "Weapon Surface flags" so metal rubbing on metal makes sparks and stuff?
    * Guns too? (Running next to a wall and gun is touching wall make sparks and wall marks O.O; )

  * TODO: Throw shurikens with secondary hand, so can't with CTF flag? Have only one attack animation.
  * TODO-after-above: Must put secondary weapon away to throw shuriken, then get it back put?
    * So Don can throw shurikens sooner than Leo/Raph/Mike?

  * TODO: Per-triangle collision for player damage, use lowest LOD model or have a model special for collision?
    * Using a special model for collision we could use group names to set what part of player is hit,
    * so shell takes less damage, banndana takes no damage, etc. We could say where a player got hit like Smokin' Guns?...

== Done? ==
  * DONE?: TA_WEAPSYS weapon_random entity that spawns a random weapon each time the weapon respawns
    * Only spawn weapons with a classname, have flags for melee and gun weapon spawning.
  * TODO: ...also allow list of weapons in message field?

  * DONE-ish?: Use freetype for TTF rendering, instead of q3font.exe's output files of a TTF. (Almost completed in Xreal?)
    * Well I no longer need q3font.exe, as copied/fixed the freetype code (Also support in console and hud consoles lines)
    * But most in game text does not support TTF.

  * WORKING(NotDone?): Have bots use shurikens. (They are used *to much* now.)

  * DONE: Have player fade out when dead instead of BodySink
    * Does it look good?


= BSPC =
BSPC is the map .bsp to .aas (Arena Awareness System) compiler. The aas file is used by bots.

  * BUG: Fix compiling with cross-make-mingw.sh


= Master Server =
  * NOTE: dpmaster is a open source master server that should support Turtle Arena


= Data =
  * DONE: Replace all of the data (that I need) in Demo Quake3's pak0.pk3
		(Also it appears that the full version doesn't add data "for the engine",
			just players, maps, and textures, (etc?))

  * TODO: Add announcer sound files (That sound like the Gyoji of the Battle Nexus?)

  * TODO: Add models for Daisho weapon group (See [NeededFiles])

  * TODO: Have a intro video (video/intro.roq or ogm) before the menu.

  * TODO: Have shurikens in all multi-player maps? (Having them be part of standard gameplay?)

  * TODO: Get free scenery objects from the Internet. Make most damageable.
    * http://virtualworlds.wikia.com

== Players ==
  * TODO: Raph and Casey really need to /swing/ the melee weapons.
    * Casey's swinging isn't that bad, but Raph's swinging sure is.

  * TODO: Set looping in don, raph, mike, and casey mm3d models and re-export

  * TODO: Add Leo, Don, Mike, and Casey bot chats.

=== Raph ====
  * TODO: Finish animating raph_v9.mm3d

=== Other Turtles ===
  * TODO: Finish Turtle player models
    * After Raph is finished:
    * Leo/Don/Mike: Finish head (model/skin), reanimate raph_v9.mm3d for Turtle
    * Raph-Mouth `<==>--<==>` (DONE)
    * Leo--Mouth ` -----<==>` (easy to do)
    * Don--Mouth ` -------- ` (DONE?)
    * Mike-Mouth ` ------.' ` (easy to do)

=== Casey ====
  * TODO: Finish Casey Jones model mesh
     * Casey's feet look ugly (fix them), and allow the toes to bend.


= Misfit Model 3D =
Stuff I'd like to do to the MD3 part of MM3D...

  * BUG: After exporting a player I have to open, touch, and save the upper and head models (with no change) to fix model lighting.

  * TODO: Finish MDR export support for Misfit Model 3D.
    * TODO: Check if Elite Force supports uncompressed MDR models.

  * TODO: MDR import support for Misfit Model 3D.

  * TODO: Export lower LODs of MD3 models (head_1.md3, head_2.md3), and include lower LODs in MDR models
    * Maybe use gts.sourceforge.net to generate lower LODs? The gallery shows its possible. Somehow.

= Website =
Current Location: http://ztm.x10hosting.com/ta/

  * TODO: Find a new host?

  * TODO: Get a domain name

  * TODO (STARTED): Updating website for Turtle Arena 0.2

  * TODO: Add a screenshot to the main page?
    * See 'Note to software creators' at the bottom of http://www.opensourcewindows.org/

  * TODO: Update Features page?

  * TODO: Add button (well really a image) instead of just text download link?
