#summary External weapon info system
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =
The weapon system used in Turtle Arena;

  * *TA_WEAPSYS define*
  * Loads weapons from external text files ([http://turtlearena.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/base/scripts/weaponinfo.txt scripts/weaponinfo.txt] and `scripts/*.weap` files)
  * Supports melee and projectile weapons
  * Per-player default weapon (Set in player's animation.cfg)
  * Allows for easy modification and custom default weapons, or new weapons for custom maps.

  * *TA_WEAPSYS_EX define*
  * Removes (works around) ioquake3 16 weapon group limit.
  * Each client is limited to holding 2 weapons (default and pickup), unlike 16 in ioquake3
  * If holding a pickup weapon the default weapon can't be used
  * Pickup weapon can be drop via a button to use default weapon
  * Automaticly drops picked up guns when they run out of ammo (When player doesn't have PW_AMMOREGEN)

  * *TA_GAME_MODELS*
  * Game QVM loads player models to get tag origin and angles (Allowing for better melee attacking)
  * Note: The polygons (etc) are loaded as well, but currently unused. (Turtle Arena dedicated server will use more RAM then ioquake3 dedicated server.)

= Definitions =
There are weapon groups, weapons, and projectiles.

  * *Weapon Groups* contain the item, ammo, and player animation info and points to one to two weapon infos (for the primary and secodary hands).
  * *Weapons* contain the weapon type, model, wall mark, blades or projectile, and other settings.
  * *Projectiles* contain damage, trail type, wall mark, and other settings. Projectiles are only used by guns.

= Formating =

TODO: Document the weapon script keywords and values.